# ece4760finalproject
Our ECE 4760 final project is a two player version of a popular game called Simon Says but in this version we are calling it Pico Says. The rationale behind this project was taking a familiar game that does not have a technological piece to it and applying what we learned this semester to it to stretch and grow our understanding. 
The high level explanation of the game is that there will be two people playing with two separate Raspberry Pi Pico boards connected to VGA Monitors. On each breadboard will be 4 buttons and 4 LEDs corresponding to each button. Sequentially each button/LED makes a distinct sound. Player One first presses whatever button of their choice first. The LED color pressed will appear in Player Two’s VGA screen. They then have to repeat what Player One sent in and add another button to the sequence. And then the two go back and forth until a player fails to press the correct sequence. However the player has 3 “lives” (in the form of hearts)like in a video game so there are opportunities for redemption. There will be a 15 second timer guess to the correct sequence and add to it. There will be background music as the game progresses. As mentioned before the user interface is going to be hardware specifically physically buttons the users press to create the sequence. It will also include computer graphics as we are using the VGA monitors to inform the player what the competition has added to the sequence. To communicate between two separate Pico boards we will be investigating the wifi option the microcontroller offers as a way to send information. Also making different difficulty levels by either changing the time limit or increasing the amount of button presses you can add to the sequence at once. 

The high level explanation of the game is that there will be two people playing with two separate Raspberry Pi Pico W boards that are connected by Wi-Fi. On each breadboard will be 4 buttons and 4 LEDs corresponding to each button. Sequentially each button/LED makes a distinct sound. The game logic is that Player 1 pushes a sequences of buttons corresponding to LEDs lighting up. That information is sent to Player 2 who has to remember what the sequence is. Then Player 2 gives a sequence to Player 1 and them go back and forth. If a player makes a mistake recalling the correct sequence, all 4 LEDS light up and the game ends. Also there is a 15 second limit to recall the sequence or else all the LEDs light up and the game ends. To change the diffcultly, there will be a user interface to select how many entries can be in each sequence. Either, 4, 6, or 8 entires can selected as the more entries to recall the harder the game becomes. We are planning to use UPD as the com,incation protocol between the two boards even though there is very little error checking.
